Ok, so welcome back. Today, I'm gonna go ahead and explain the so-called goto
loop that is not exactly a loop, but can
be used to simulate one. So, I did not say
goto to is actually a loop, it is
something like a loop or that simulates
one. Now, what you are about to see on the
screen actually, that's not this. Why
did I delete the whole thing? Anyway,
what you are about to see on the screen, no definitely not what I want, this is
from the last chapter. Anyway, what you're
about to see on the screen is purely for
illustrative and
demonstrative purposes only. That is you
really shouldn't program like this. I just
want to show you how goto is used, and
once I show it to you remember it and
then don't use it ever again, so to say.
Well, I mean you will be able to use it
later on but it's just not really
recommended way of going about things
because it can cause a
lot of problems, and it can cause a lot of
infinite repetition, it can cause
logic problems as well. So, here goes
nothing,
here's how not to do things. "int main()"
but you do need to know it, I  mean
because you will encouter it in the code
sooner or later and you do need to know
what it is and how it functions. "int i = 1;"
and the way this works is that
the goto statement it consists of
the following, you have a label and you
have a goto label. Label is the starting
point from which the part og a program
should start executing, that is we can
put our label here, "AGAIN:" let's call it again.
So, the label name is arbitrary. So,
this is the starting point of the
execution and then you have a goto
label which is the part where we specify
the execution to go backwards or
forwards or forward to our label. So,
our label will be used in the goto
statement and the goto statement will
instruct program to go back to the AGAIN
label, or to go forward to the AGAIN label,
one way or the other. And here we shall
type in "std::cout << i << std::endl;"
Ok, then "++i;" and now we shall have
some sort of an if statement here to have a condition, and now you will see why
this is actually simulating a loop. And
down below I shall simply type
"goto AGAIN;" So, this name is
arbitrary, you can name it pretty much
however you want within certain standards of course, and then down below we will type
"return 0;" Ok, there we go. So, iteration will occur in the following way.
You will get the initialisation, it will
go past this that's all fine and dandy, it
will go into if and I will be
evaluated to be less or equal than 20.
Yes, okay it will be and then since this
is true this will execute and
then the program will go to the label
AGAIN, and it will execute all of this
again, and again, and again, and again, and again until i becomes greater than 20. So,
let's go ahead and build and run this.
So, see it says 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 ,11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20. Ok, so it went from
1 to 20 that's a printout. So, you see how this is simulating a loop while not actually
being a loop? This can cause
so many logic errors, this can be so
difficult to debug, not the iteration but
the goto with the labels can cause so
many headaches, not really a pleasant
thing. Anyway, I'm not telling you not to ever, ever, ever,
ever use it. You will see it used later,
you'll of course see it used in the bigger
programs, but it's really not a
recommended way and as I said it can,
it's really not a recommended way of
going about things, but that's how it
functions, basically. you can have a GOTO
statement somewhere in your code and you
can have a label either before, or after, or
anywhere in the code for that matter, and
then once the once the program reaches
the goto it will go to the specified
label and begin the execution of the
code from there onwards. It can cause a lot
of logic errors just saying. Anyway, that
should be it as far as the go-to is
concerned, we're going to
talk a little bit about the infinite
loops, and then I'm gonna talk a little
bit about the nested loops, and that's going to be it for the loops chapter. I bid you farewell
and hope to see you in the next tutorial.